# aircraft-analytical-design-tools
This is a set of MATLAB Files to assist in analytical design of aircraft (Wings, Tail, CG, etc.)
The code is created to work with MATLAB R2021b.

The "Functions" folder contains a set of code that runs in the backend to more rapidly calculate specific requirements, such as the wing area and shape, or the values of area, second moment of area and polar moment of area (A, I, J).

There are several scripts included to guide the process of aircraft design:
"APC_Prop_Calculator.m" takes the simulated propeller performace data for a range of RPM values, given by APC Propellers. The data is good for the purposes of calculating the thrust generated by the propeller, but the power data is not accurate, so disregard that data.
This code requires the APC PER3 propeller performance data. A single file is included as to show the location.

"Constraints.m" generates the aircraft constraints graph dependent on the input data estimated for the design aircraft.
"Foam_Wing_Structure_Calculator.m" can calculate the structural properties of a both a solid wing, and a solid wing with added structural reinforcements. This includes stress and deflection of the wing.
"HTail_Plotter.m" calculates the area and shape of the Horizontal tail, using the Tail Volume Sizing method.
"VTail_Plotter.m" calculates the area and shape of the Vertical tail, using the Tail Volume Sizing method.
"Wing_Plotter_1Taper.m" calculates the area and shape of the wing, using only a single taper. The tail plotter code was derived from this one, and the method is the same.
"Wing_Plotter_2Taper.m" calculates the area and shape of the wing, using a double taper design.

I would suggest the order of scripts to be: 
1. Constraints
2. Wing_Plotter (1 or 2 Taper, defines the wing shape)
3. HTail_Plotter
4. VTail_Plotter
5. (Optional, for solid wings) Foam_Wing_Structure_Calculator
6. APC_Prop_Calculator

the original ".mlx" files are included in the "mlx Files" folder. These provide more user-friendly data I/O, but are not readable in GitHub.
